[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
We've all heard
of the effectiveness of
mind over matter meditations
and exercises, but
how many of you
have ever thought that it
could be body over mind that
could heal us?
We think somehow
the body is less
knowledgeable than the
mind, but Bill McKenna says
we're in for a big surprise.
And welcome back, Bill.
You're always
searching, and you just
have these amazing epiphanies
that pop through in your mind.
And then you start playing, and
then you start experimenting.
Then you start kind of
doing your own research
and find, oh, my god, it works.
>>BILL MCKENNA: Yeah.
Yeah.
Exactly.
>>REGINA: So what
I thought we'd do,
because it's been a
while, so for those
who didn't see my first
interview with you,
you can always go back and
watch the first interview,
but I thought we'd go ahead
and just kind of bring people
back through where you've been
on the whole healing process,
in terms of the healing work
that you've shared with others.
You're a very humble
kind of teacher.
And so first of
all, we're talking
about frequency and dimension.
Let's just kind of
start with where
we are in the third
dimension and what
our challenge is with healing in
the third dimension, as a rule.
>>MCKENNA: I just
shared the aspects
that comprise these
different, called dimensions
or frequencies.
In the third dimension, there's
laws, rules, regulations, yours
and mine.
The focus happens to be on
either the past or the future,
and our ego plays
into this wonderfully,
because it has
these three modes.
It wants, either it wants,
it's not getting what it wants,
or it's indifferent.
And this, when
we're in that realm,
we have very little ability to
actually have mind over matter.
Everything is done
through force,
force of will of some kind.
>>REGINA: Or subconcious
programs running.
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
Subconcious--
>>REGINA: They just take over.
>>MCKENNA: Yes,
exactly, because that's
what's in the present moment
is those subconscious programs
are taken over in.
In the third dimension, it's
the home of conditional love.
Everything's conditional.
In the fourth dimension,
unconditional love emerges,
and our ego becomes
kind of neutralized.
The focus becomes
on the present,
and this wonderful ability
of mind over matter
starts to emerge.
So this-- the last time
that we interviewed
was the what I would call
extreme mind over matter.
And in this session, what
I want to share with you,
the epiphanies that took
place are no less extreme
and that is the body over mind.
So what ended up happening--
>>REGINA: Let me ask
you one question--
>>MCKENNA: Go ahead, sure.
>>REGINA: --before we get going.
It has to all be coming from the
same place ultimately though.
So you're talking
about the notion of--
last time we talked about
the fourth dimension,
where love is
unconditional, and where you
can kind of do a phase shift.
Time doesn't act the same.
Everything is present and now
so you can do instant healing.
So before we go into this
next part of your epiphany
and your research and such,
isn't this fourth dimension
still playing--
or another dimension
still playing
into the healing process,
even though the way we're
accessing it is different?
>>MCKENNA: Oh, Yes.
Absolutely.
We're accessing it
through the body,
but as you'll see in what
I'm going to talk about,
it's amazing because
you actually feel it.
You can feel it
energetically in the body.
And I'm not talking about like,
oh, you've got to be woo-woo
or you've got to be something,
some ascended master
type being.
Is everyday Joe Schmo,
who doesn't know anything
about anything actually
experiences this in their body
as an energy.
>>REGINA: But it has that
same complement in that
it has a timelessness to it.
You're getting
results very quickly
in real-time like you were with
your other healing modality.
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
>>REGINA: It's a
little different,
but I mean, it's
still happening now.
>>MCKENNA: It's happening very
fast, extraordinarily fast.
The results are fast, some
faster than others, but it sure
is--
I didn't expect it.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now, let's do the set up.
So you were thinking
about something.
>>MCKENNA: So kind
of like before,
kind of the pieces
of the puzzle--
I don't even know
how to describe this,
but kind of a lifetime
of pieces of the puzzle
just all the sudden
kind of came together.
And they seem so disparate
as they're happening.
The first one was my experience
with what's called a labyrinth,
right?
So a labyrinth-- they're
all over the place.
>>REGINA: Had you
walked a labyrinth
and that's what got
you thinking about it?
>>MCKENNA: There was this
amazing, wonderful, very
wise person that kind of
introduced me to a labyrinth,
but they did it in a
different way, right?
A lot of those things
can seem very woo-woo.
What they said was, labyrinths
are just the most practical
problem-solving tool.
And the way it works
is you come in,
and it doesn't matter if
it's your carburetor--
I want to know how
to fix my carburetor
or why is my son
have this issue,
or why is my job not
producing the money I need,
whatever it might be.
But you walk in
with the problem,
and you walk in
with the intention
of kind of thinking
about the problem
as you probably normally do.
And as you walk in,
you're physically
forced to turn to the left.
You walk a few more
feet, you're physically
forced to turn a
U-turn to the right,
and this goes on
for a mile or so.
But it does not-- because
it's in a little circle
and you're going
back and forth, it
doesn't seem like
it's that long.
You focus and you're
thinking about the problem,
and all of a
sudden, what happens
is you get a new idea, a new
resolution, and why is that?
And the way she explained
it was quite simply,
you're used to solving
problems with one
half of your brain, the logical
end or the creative end.
We lean more towards
one or the other.
What happens is, when
you do that U-turn,
you get physically forced
into the opposite hemisphere
of the brain.
So I'm over here on the
left-hand side, real logical--
>>REGINA: Making a
right-hand hand turn.
>>MCKENNA: So yeah.
So all of a sudden, as you're
going through the labyrinth,
you're like, oh, I
could do it this way.
Oh, I could do it that way.
Huh, never thought
of that before.
But it's so natural.
>>REGINA: So you're getting
whole brain activation,
and you're getting that synaptic
activity between hemispheres,
so boom, it's all lit up.
It would be very interesting
to see an MRI of that, right?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, it sure would.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
See what's lighting up and--
yeah.
>>MCKENNA: So as
a practical tool,
you can utilize labyrinth
to solve problems.
They're free.
They're all over the world.
Labyrinthlocator.com is free.
5,500 labyrinths across the
world, 90 countries, and you
could just walk into
pretty much any one of them
and just start using them.
>>REGINA: Labyrinthlocator.com.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
Yeah, awesome.
When people walk a labyrinth,
the other interesting thing
is that they find
this kind of peace.
And the reason that they find
the piece is because they're
usually in stress,
and then, as they
walk the labyrinth,
one half of the time,
they're over in the right-hand,
that right hemisphere
of the brain.
The stress is over on the
left half of the brain.
So voila, it's
pretty simple, right?
So that was my first
experience with,
you know what, my body
can impact my mind
and help me process something.
By the way, if you ever
walk one of the labyrinths,
I recommend getting a sheet
of paper or maybe your phone
and make a note, because
the thoughts come so fast,
and you forget.
They're so fleeting,
and you can--
you want to make a note.
>>REGINA: You probably have your
iPhone in your pocket and you
just--
>>MCKENNA: Make a note.
Yeah, make a note of it.
>>REGINA: Memo.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, exactly.
That's what I had to do.
So that was my first--
my first experience with this.
The other-- I had a
series of things, right?
So I got exposed to this light
therapy, which I know you do.
And for certain
people, right, they
get exposed to a light,
color, and this color
ends up affecting their
chakras, in these energy
centers in your
body, and they'll
end up actually feeling it,
which I thought was amazing.
The other real interesting thing
that I ran into, and this was
in-- because I've studied
kind of multiple different
modalities of processing stuff--
PSYCH-K, what they'll do is--
eyes up to, say, high left
or high right and they
go cross-body.
They go tapping cross-body.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
He has great success,
practitioners all over,
Rob Williams.
>>MCKENNA: Oh, my gosh, yeah,
yeah, really successful.
But this cross-body
movement is--
and I learned about
it from multiple--
it's not the only one, right?
There's Brain Gym, which
is super successful,
where they do cross-body stuff.
One of my favorite
things about cross-body,
basically it was
crawling, right?
>>REGINA: That's right.
Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: Crawling.
So if you don't
crawl as a child,
you go from just sitting
to standing and walking,
you miss a development
stage and that causes--
a sign of emotional problems.
There was a--
>>REGINA: I think there's
a crawling therapy.
>>MCKENNA: Yes, there is.
Yeah, that's the one.
There's crawling therapy.
I'm sure you google
"crawling therapy."
But one of my
favorite stories is
there's this law
firm in San Diego,
and all the lawyers were kind
of out of sorts emotionally,
and somehow, one of the
head guys, thought of,
I'm going to put my
whole entire office
through this crawling
therapy, and he did.
Well, the thing
that I just thought
was so funny is one of the
lawyers was in court, in trial.
And he'd been going through
the crawling therapy,
and then all of
sudden, he's, mm-hmm.
He just started
sucking his thumb.
I was like--
[LAUGHS] Another one
wet his bed, because they had
to go through the processing
stuff.
But anyway, our body
actually affects our mind.
So one day I got the idea,
and I was like, I had-- oh,
super huge important thing
that's super effective
is Eye Movement Desensitization
and Reprograming, EMDR.
I got exposed to this
several years back,
and I had worked with
probably over 1,000 people,
helping him through.
But I'll tell you what,
basically another huge epiphany
that our body can force the
programming of what our mind
cannot.
And basically,
the person focuses
on a problem and a trauma and
then they move their eyes left,
right.
And they've had phenomenal
success, so much success
that it's been adopted
by the World Health
Organization, United States
Department of Defense,
the Veterans Administration
for post-traumatic stress
disorders.
And we're talking about,
they've done studies
on this between, whatever
study you look at, 84% to 100%,
three sessions, PTSD, boom.
Wow.
>>REGINA: It's very
effective, yes.
>>MCKENNA: And we so
badly needed this,
and this is like an
amazing, amazing therapy.
>>REGINA: But again, you're
getting the same thing going,
right, left, right, left.
>>MCKENNA: Right.
Yes, it has right-left.
So kind of one day, I
just thought to myself,
I wonder, I wonder if- I had
also, studying the brain,
I was looking at one
of these diagrams,
and I noticed the right
hemisphere of the brain notices
three-dimensional objects and
where they're at in time/space.
And the left
hemisphere of our brain
notices colors and symbols.
I was like, mm,
mm, I wonder if--
So I was like in the color--
from the color
therapy, I noticed
that had an effect
on the chakras.
So I said, ah, there's
something here.
Put them together.
And I did.
When I said, OK, I'm going
to design a ball, three
dimensional object, colors of
the chakras and the symbols,
and I'm going to throw
it left and right.
So I did it.
>>REGINA: I think
It's a brilliant idea.
>>MCKENNA: Well, I didn't know--
first of all, when I
did it, what I did--
it was literally-- literally,
I was like, I called a friend,
a personal friend, because
I was like, you know,
I don't know if this is going
to work or not, and I can't--
so I call my friend, and I
say, hey, man, can you help me?
I just need you to
focus on an issue.
I've got something new to try.
I don't know if it'll
work or not, OK?
So this particular friend had
a problem with a family member
that had been
going on for years,
and on a scale of one
to 10 it was an eight.
OK.
All right.
So here we go.
I want you to--
I'm going to throw
you the ball, and I'm
going to throw it
left, right, and I just
want you to see the
color and say the color.
That's all.
And just stay focused on this
family member, and that's it.
You don't have to do nothing.
Just focus on them.
They're wrong.
You're right, and they're a
bah, bah, bah, bah, bah, bah.
OK.
So I'm just going to remind you
that they're a bah, bah, bah,
bah.
OK boom, boom, boom,
boom, boom, seven minutes
Seven minutes, and he is like,
my belly button is heating up.
It literally, this
would be for those--
it's a chakra, right, but
it's a belly button to him.
And it heated up and
then he started sweating.
Another four minutes,
keep doing it, right?
all of a sudden,
he's like, I've got pain
in my chest, my heart area.
Just keep going.
And boom, boom, boom,
boom, boom, and it's
like, he starts coughing.
[COUGHING] It's like up in
his throat, and then it like,
whoosh, boom, gone.
15 minutes.
And I was like, so
how do you feel?
He's like, I don't
feel anything.
Kind of like EMDR, I
don't feel anything,
but it also had an
effect through his body.
And knowing-- I
had known obviously
about the chakras
and those things,
but to him it was
his body, right?
But there was an
experience of it.
So that was the first
time, and I was like,
oh, man, I'm onto something.
Well, I've got this
great kind of flow.
Every Saturday, I dedicate my
time for free, for years now,
and I help people.
I sit in a room in this
retreat center and people come,
and I just pull out my
toolbox and what do you got?
Do it.
So I've got a flow, right?
You name it, problems,
and I'd help people.
So I'm doing traumas and
different things of whatever,
and it's working.
And they're all having
this experience,
either it will light up,
and they'll have pain, heat,
and then a release.
Or some people won't even
notice the pain or heat,
they'll just experience
this release feeling.
Everybody uses the same words.
It's like I have
a weight lifted.
It's like this
feels open and ease.
There's an easiness to their gut
or to their chest or wherever.
So anyway, pretty cool.
That was kind of neat.
Well, things-- this really
started really spooling up
into the area of I can't even
believe this actually happened.
But the first one, I had the
board of directors come out
and see me and somebody
wanted me to do a talk.
And three of the board
of directors-- and this
is a bunch of doctors, right?
There's a huge
conference of doctors.
They want me to talk.
OK, so three of the
board directors come out,
and OK, we're going
to talk about,
present on what we filmed in
our first interview last time.
And I said--
>>REGINA: Yours and
my first interview.
>>MCKENNA: Exactly.
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Because they had seen it.
>>MCKENNA: They saw it on Gaia.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: The
doctors had seen it.
OK.
>>MCKENNA: Exactly.
The doctors saw it on Gaia, and
they said, this is valuable.
So I say, hey, no problem.
Do that.
Hey, by the way, you guys,
I got this other thing.
You might want to
know about this,
and so I did it with them.
Two of the doctors said, yeah,
I got this thing, whatever
emotional thing.
Boom, boom, boom, boom,
boom, same thing happened.
And they felt it, right?
They felt it, and
boom, it's gone.
The last one-- this
is where it gets
weird- the last one's there, and
he's like, yeah, I ain't got--
and he didn't have
any emotional thing.
But he says, my tooth, you
know my tooth, my tooth,
it like hurts really bad,
and my face is kind of
swelled up because of it.
He had lost his enamel and the
dentist was in there doing--
>>REGINA: Ow.
Ow.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, ow, exactly.
And the dentist did
something and it was going on
for weeks and weeks.
He asked me the first
time, and I said, no.
This is not going
to work for you.
>>REGINA: This is for emotions.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah,
this is for emotions.
No.
No, I'm sorry.
Asks me again.
No, I don't think so.
Third time, I said, well,
it don't cost nothing.
Let's-- I'll do it.
I didn't think it would work.
It went from a seven down
to one half of one point.
A seven.
I was like, really?
Really?
He said, no, I'm not joking,
that actually happened.
It's like OK.
Well, on my Saturday
deals, a woman comes in.
She's got a cane.
She's 85.
She looks like heck.
She's in a lot of pain.
Hey, let's do this.
I said--
>>REGINA: You did the
ball thing with her?
She was OK?
She was able to catch it?
>>MCKENNA: She was able
to catch it, right?
But her leg was in
like an eight of pain,
and she obviously had issues.
It worked.
She walked out carrying her
cane, and this was physical.
So that was really
kind of amazing for me.
I was like, wow, there's
something going on here.
>>REGINA: Now you're feeling
encouraged, confident.
>>MCKENNA: Now I'm feeling--
yeah, I'm feeling kind of
encouraged and confident.
And then along with
the weird coincidences,
I'm in a business meeting,
this venture capital deal,
and a woman sits
down next to me.
Oh, so what do you do?
Oh, I'm-- my normal business,
cybersecurity, blah, blah,
blah.
Oh, yeah.
I'm a neurocellular brain
scientist at Stanford.
I was like, mm,
that's interesting.
So I said, hey,
is there something
going on in the brain if I,
for example, catch a ball,
I'm not talking about the
brain sending the message
to catch the ball, but when
you catch the ball right over
here or here, whatever, is
there something that gets
activated in the brain?
She says, yes, there is.
And she says, it's
called a place cell.
These place cells are part
of a complex system, right,
and it gives us our spatial kind
of orientation and different
things.
But it's not just one little
cell firing, it's a complex.
So I was like, oh, wow.
So we've got both ends
of the brain getting
fired left and right,
and then these place
calls, because I'm
throwing the ball randomly,
right, and all over, these
things are getting fired.
Somehow, while the person is
focused on that one thing,
and I know when somebody
focuses on one thing
that it lights up that
part of the brain.
So now, you've got both
halves of the brain,
place cells are getting
lit up, and most
of all, the intensity
of that one thing
lit up literally in the brain.
So there's something going on.
And then I don't know why--
well, there's a
connection, right?
Thoughts and feelings, and
feelings and thoughts--
great work of Joe Dispenza,
thoughts and feelings
and the storage of these things.
>>REGINA: He's popular
with our viewers.
>>MCKENNA: He's
popular with me, too.
I love his work.
Next thing that happens is I'm
walking through the grocery
store.
And I'm with my cart
through the grocery store,
and you pass the
magazine aisle, right?
And they've got all the lady--
"Shape" magazine,
"Cosmo," all the--
"Pow" all those things.
On all the magazines,
they have lose weight
now on this great diet,
get these slim pants.
>>REGINA: Because it's
January, December and January
in particular, yeah.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah,
this was summertime.
Get your summertime body.
>>REGINA: Well, that's true.
Yeah, get your bikini body back.
Right.
>>MCKENNA: All these
magazines, all the same thing
on the front cover.
I was like, oh, this is kind
of interesting, because there's
such a focus on weight.
And I thought about
it, you know how
my mind wanders about things
and starts chewing on it.
I was like, this
is a real problem.
And all these people, right,
are so focused on weight,
and they're fighting.
They're all fighting the diet.
Whoever went on a diet
and was, like, oh, great,
I get to eat some
lettuce today, or I'm
going to eat melon today, or
something, whatever it is?
Everybody is doing
two things, is
they're fighting their craving,
what they really want, right?
And then they're also,
they're stuffing themselves.
In my thoughts,
underlying everything
was this feeling of
being unfulfilled.
And eating something,
you're sitting
there feeling
unfulfilled, and you're
trying to fill up, right?
You're eating stuff.
So anyway, those thoughts
kind of ran through my brain.
I knew this was a major problem.
And I thought to myself,
the way in is the way out.
Friend of mine, I love to tell,
use his term, is in race cars,
to say, the throttle, it's
your way into problems.
It's also your way out.
So that weekend,
I go back, I say,
hey, anybody who has a
craving, right, anything,
and you want that
craving to go away,
like for candy or fried
foods or whatever.
I don't care what it is.
So anyway, one-by-one,
they obviously come
in, and they're like--
the first one I did,
I think it was candy.
And I said, I want
you to enjoy candy.
I want you to think
about all the enjoyment.
Imagine you are eating
your absolute favorite.
I want you to taste it.
I want you to smell it.
I want you to be in it, right?
No holding back.
Just think it's good.
Eat it.
Yeah.
So OK, throw the ball.
Boom, boom, boom, boom.
I put the intensity--
it was a 10
for her, on a
scale of one to 10.
Boom, boom, boom, boom,
boom, 15 minutes, and again,
a minor kind of heating
up in her lower abdomen.
And after 15
minutes, the feeling
went to zero of the craving.
And I was like, oh,
that's interesting.
I wonder if it will work?
I don't know.
Because who knows if it's going
to last until she walks out
the door, or if it's going to
last for the rest of her life.
I have no idea.
But I ended up doing a
bunch of them over time.
One was Coca-Cola, ice cold
Coke, mm, good, you know?
So I did all these different
ones-- chips, you name it,
whatever their thing was.
And I had them do
the same process,
and the same thing happened.
Some of them didn't
feel it in their body,
but still, the
thing went to zero.
Followed up over the
course of weeks and months,
because I was so curious
the next few days.
I followed up, and
what they all said is,
yeah, I went back and ate it,
but it just lost its luster.
It was like it didn't
taste that good.
>>REGINA: They were satisfied.
>>MCKENNA: It didn't
taste that good.
>>REGINA: Yeah, because they
were already filled up, right?
>>MCKENNA: I don't--
yeah, I don't know.
>>REGINA: I mean, when they're
doing that, you must have been
reinforcing this
feeling of satisfaction,
this completeness
or fullness, right?
If they're imagining, oh, my
god, the feel on the tongue
and the sweet and the salty
and the textures and everything
while they're throwing
the ball, wouldn't that
have reinforced the feeling
of full satisfaction?
>>MCKENNA: You know, I
don't know the truth.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
We don't know.
I mean, I'm just-- that's kind
of what I'm seeing in my head
is they fulfilled themselves
with the experience,
and that you reinforced
this with the ball.
>>MCKENNA: Somehow, there
was something stuck.
>>REGINA: Something
that locked it in.
>>MCKENNA: There was
something stuck somewhere,
because the chakra got-- the
heat of that particular chakra,
and then some of them were
just straight up release.
They felt this release.
So there's something
that gets released.
And I don't-- there's things
I know and things I don't.
I don't know.
I can kind of, like,
speak to the results.
Following up though,
some people--
all of them were very
high because this
is their thing, right?
On a scale of one to 10,
it's eight, nine, 10.
>>REGINA: Especially
with women and sweets.
Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
And then the weeks after,
it would kind of creep up,
but it would only get to
maybe a three or four,
something like that,
where it was manageable.
And then they would do it
again, and it would go to zero.
But all of them had a vast
diminishment in what it was.
But interestingly enough, it
was contrary to everything
we've been taught, which
is fight that darn thing
through your will, right?
>>REGINA: No, it makes
sense, because there's
a certain kind of
love and grace in it,
where you're, like
you say, you're
not going into conflict
with your own psyche
and your own body.
You're giving it the benefit
of the pleasure, right?
>>MCKENNA: You
know, some of these
are, you know, going
to be just relief,
but it's a non-drug relief.
>>REGINA: And it might
require a little effort,
like 15 minutes a week
of pain management
via tossing the ball
back and forth, right?
That's a small price to pay.
Some of those drugs are tough.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, maybe.
Anyway.
>>REGINA: I mean, that's
not a recommendation.
I'm just thinking imaginatively,
it would be fun to play with.
>>MCKENNA: I have no idea
what else you can apply it to.
I've just kind of applied
it where I've sought,
just what's come to me.
And I'm just playing around,
and those are my results,
and that sort of thing.
>>REGINA: Well, OK.
Couple questions-- first of
all, I can think of one more,
because you and I
talked on the phone.
You said, it was so weird, my
little six-year-old daughter--
so that's another-- that's
a really interesting one.
So share that story.
>>MCKENNA: So my daughter,
she's six, and she's just great.
So one day, this is not long
ago, we were just talking,
and she says--
we were kind of doing
exercises, and she says,
I can't do push-ups.
And I said, sure you can.
Go do a push-up.
And she's like, she tries to
get up and boom, falls down.
Come on, try again.
You can do it.
Tries, boom, down.
OK.
I said, OK, well,
let's try something.
And she's seen me do this.
>>REGINA: Playing with the ball.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, playing
with the ball before.
Let's play catch.
We're just playing catch, right?
She's six years old.
We're just going to play catch.
>>REGINA: Did you have
her verbalize the color?
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
I say, say the color.
And that's all I did.
Throw, catch, left, right.
Yeah, left, right, play catch.
Did it for about one
minute, just playing catch.
Just say the color.
And I said, OK,
give me the ball.
All right, now do a push-up.
Ba-boom, like strong,
just like a pro.
I was like, hm, wow.
>>REGINA: Now, this would be
very interesting to people
who are getting back in
some kind of fitness program
and so forth, to start
thinking about how to make
their brain cooperate with the
process of building strength,
right?
I mean, that's the implication.
That could be the case, right?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, you're
unlocking something
It unlocks something,
and gosh, I
would love to get my hands
on Olympic, pro athletes
or whatever and give
it a go with them.
>>REGINA: Yeah, oh, yeah.
>>MCKENNA: Not that I
even watch that stuff.
>>REGINA: I mean, you must know
people who work out, and maybe
just do like sets,
befores and afters,
what they're capable of.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
Yeah, that's another--
>>REGINA: It's
something like that.
And so let me see this ball.
I love the size
of it, but I think
you said this is your
prototype, right?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And
ultimately, this ball
is going to be a
little bit larger?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, well, producing
beach balls and soccer balls
and that sort of thing.
I think, I'll make different
sizes, travel sizes
or that sort of thing.
>>REGINA: Are they
going to be made out
of a plastic or a fabric
like this or what?
>>MCKENNA: The ones I have being
made right now are plastic.
>>REGINA: OK.
And it's like this.
They have the panels, which
has a symbol and then it has--
that correlates to the chakra.
So we're talking
about the first,
second, third, fourth and
so forth, as the chakras go.
And so I have another question.
So when people are tossing
the ball back and forth,
do you ever find
that with some people
the same color keeps coming up?
>>MCKENNA: Wow.
Here's the weird thing,
right, is not only
do I find that that happens
and it will happen repeatedly.
But here's the weird thing.
They'll be going along,
doing this, especially
with people with a trauma,
they'll hit a color,
and it will make them cry.
But I won't let them up.
Keep crying, because
that stimulates
that part of the brain
that the thing is stuck in.
I want them to stay in it.
It's actually better if they
can stay in that feeling of that
so it lights up that
part of the brain.
Yeah, so that's one thing.
I also find-- here's
the interesting thing,
is that there is a correlation
in between where this ball like
lands and the problem.
So what I'll find is that
they're fine left-right,
and then I'll
throw it maybe low,
it didn't matter
where it is, but they
will fumble in that place.
There's some stuckness
in between the physical
and the mental and the whole
system, but it's in that place.
And when that happens, I'll
start attacking that place.
If they fumble it
there, boom, boom, boom,
I'll throw it there
repeatedly, and then
I'll notice, all of a sudden,
they can catch it there then.
So there's multiple
things going on.
>>REGINA: Well, it would be
interesting to start noting,
for example, if it's
say an emotional issue,
and they're kind of coming up
with a preponderance of one
particular color, to take
note of the emotion it is,
and then look at it in terms
of classical color therapy.
Years ago, I was--
this is past life stuff--
I was obsessed
with color therapy.
This is probably, I'm
guessing, about probably close
to 30 years ago now.
And so I read every
book there was.
I started giving
little seminars.
I even would speak to
the downtown Rotary Club
with 600 men talking to them
about color and the impressions
they're making in their work
life and for the widowers,
if you wear a pink
shirt, you're going
to have more luck with the
ladies and that kind of thing.
But one thing I noticed
that was really interesting,
because we have this
visual component
with the color that we--
we're magnetized through
the visual perception is
I would have people
in my classes
and some of my workshops put
a bandana over their eyes
so they couldn't see, and
then I used color lights
with theater gels,
right, very pure colors.
And I would flash that
color on the group.
I would change colors
randomly on the group.
I would have them, as
soon as I switched color,
I'd say, tell me what you feel.
And quickly, tell
me what you feel.
Tell me what you feel.
And usually, 80% to
90% of the people
would be on the same page,
which is I feel agitated.
I feel warm.
I feel this, which was
the color red, of course.
And then you'd go through.
So they didn't have
to even see it,
and they were
already experiencing
the vibrational effects of it.
So that's why I was asking you.
If you're having one
color subconsciously
being tossed repeatedly,
or you're subconsciously
engaged with them,
tossing the same color
and they're perceiving
it again and again,
how deep that actually
goes on a vibrational level
to associate this problem,
this action, with that color?
>>MCKENNA: So interesting.
I do find that's the case.
And I'll spin that thing.
I'll spin it and throw
it, and it still comes up.
>>REGINA: That's
what I'm saying.
Then you've got some
kind of subconscious.
You guys are working
together on another level.
Yeah, that's fascinating.
>>MCKENNA: I even did it--
obviously, I do everything
to myself, right.
And I bounce it
off a wall, right?
I bounce it.
I basically bounce
it off a wall, boom.
Do it to myself back and forth.
Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom,
and I find the same thing
even happens with me,
and I'm conscious of it.
And I'm spinning the
heck out of it, right?
So this is another
interesting-- again,
the pieces of the puzzle.
>>REGINA: Are coming together.
Have you tried this
yet, for example,
in a corporate environment?
>>MCKENNA: No.
I have not.
>>REGINA: Wouldn't
that be something?
Where you have kind of some
anxieties, misunderstanding,
corporate stuff going
on, because of--
and the whole team building
thing, unconscious thing.
It's noninvasive.
It's not woo-woo.
That would be really
interesting on a corporate level
to get a few people in the room.
>>MCKENNA: You know
what, it would.
You know what I
think it would do?
Is help people to
start getting along
and to start seeing
other points of view,
because they're utilizing
more of their brain.
It's kind of like the push-up,
but it's emotional, right?
My daughter could
now do a push-up
and see things differently.
You could be broader.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
why wouldn't it be?
So if you're in the room with
someone you have an opposing
viewpoint with and say, you're
just totally in resistance
to this person.
Look what would
happen there, right?
The resistance should
theoretically go from an eight
or a 10 down to a
one or a zero, right?
And then what-- then can
you hear each other, right?
>>MCKENNA: Thank you.
Yes, that's exactly it.
When you're in resistance,
you cannot even hear the other
person, right?
And one of the other
interesting epiphanies
that I had is that
in corporate life,
is that our inability to
not hear the other person
comes across as disrespect,
but underlying this is I
don't see the good in you.
And as soon as I can start
seeing the good in you,
I'll start to listen.
>>REGINA: Right.
Or if it's not you, your
idea, what you represent.
Exactly.
OK.
So can you work--
say couples, for example,
or family members,
can they work with this
together, where each of you
has an issue with the other,
and you're cross tossing
to each other at the same time?
>>MCKENNA: I so love that idea.
Haven't done it.
I love that idea.
>>REGINA: Wouldn't that be
something if you could engage
with each other where you're
both focused on the thing that
you're upset about and you're--
>>MCKENNA: And working together.
>>REGINA: Together.
>>MCKENNA: Together
instead of just--
because everybody I work
with is just one person.
They've got the bad feeling,
and I'm just helping them.
>>REGINA: You're
the facilitator.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, I'm
helping them over it.
>>REGINA: Wouldn't it
be fun to find people
that have some kind of
beef going with each other
and let them play with
it and see what happens?
>>MCKENNA: They'd be willing.
>>REGINA: Be willing to
show up with each other.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah,
that would work.
>>REGINA: I think you have
many more wonderful experiments
ahead.
>>MCKENNA: You gave me a
bunch of new experiments.
>>REGINA: And I want to hear
from you after you do them.
>>MCKENNA: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: And when your--
when are these balls
going to be in production
and available to people?
>>MCKENNA: By the time
this airs, the website
will be up and
going and available.
I'm going to try and set it
up so that they can get them
on Amazon or whatever.
But most importantly, the
website of how the heck do I
do this?
And the main issue,
right, is going
to be focus, because what
I find is people lose focus
on the issue.
I literally have to remind
them every 30 seconds,
go back to the problem,
because they want to avoid it.
I don't know if it's
subconscious or whatever,
but their mind will
drift, and they'll
start focusing on the ball or
something and not on the issue.
And the power is to focus
on-- keep that brain lit
up and focused on the issue.
And that's what the videos
do to keep you online
and some other tips.
>>REGINA: OK.
So if you have pain, just
like if you have pleasure
with this food, you
want to roll in it.
So if you have pain,
same thing applies?
You have to think of the pain?
>>MCKENNA: Get into it.
>>REGINA: Get into the pain.
>>MCKENNA: Not avoid it.
I want to-- it hurts, and I
can't stand it, and ow, ow, ow,
ow.
>>REGINA: I think before we-- we
have a couple other discoveries
you made, but before we get
off the topic of the ball,
why don't you give
us a little demo.
You can use me as your person.
>>MCKENNA: OK.
Well, you just keep
your head static, right?
And then just like that, and
you look down with your eyes.
And when you look
down with your eyes,
that helps you to connect
you with the emotion.
So your eyes down
actually allow you
to connect with the
emotion of the problem.
And I just say to
people connect with it
and then put it on a
scale of one to 10.
And be in it.
It's happening now.
OK.
And then I just throw the ball.
OK, and notice we're
going to go cross.
We're going cross-body
with both hands.
So it's causing her
to go cross-body.
But I need her to identify
the color and say the color.
>>REGINA: All right.
Orange, orange,
blue, green, blue,
>>MCKENNA: Focus on the issue.
>>REGINA: Yellow, blue.
>>MCKENNA: Stay in the problem.
>>REGINA: Blue, green, orange.
>>MCKENNA: You go
different positions, right?
>>REGINA: I have
to tell you, it's
really hard to focus on the
problem when you're thinking,
I have to catch it.
Well, your responding
I have to catch it,
and I have to
identify the color.
Oh, my god.
There are two colors I'm
seeing at the same time.
Do I say green,
or do I say blue?
And it's like, oh, yeah,
what was the problem again?
What am I thinking of?
You do.
So I can see the facilitator.
You have to--
>>MCKENNA: The facilitator has
to-- you need a facilitator
to keep you on course.
>>REGINA: Maybe that's why,
say, two people working it out
would be a little
difficult if you're both
having a beef with each
other, because there's no one
to tell the other one focus.
Focus on that thing.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, or
you'll get better.
Here's the weird thing,
is as time goes on,
the first five
minutes, seven minutes,
it's, like, hard to focus.
And it gets easier to focus as
time goes on, and you speed up.
It's like there's a desire to
boom, boom, boom, boom, boom,
faster and faster as you go.
I just notice this
as a phenomenon.
But you experienced--
the beginnings of it
are kind of hard to
concentrate, and that's
why I kind of put together the
videos to, OK, focus on it.
Be in it now.
That type of thing.
No, I see that, and
I noticed in my case,
the patterns were popping up
predominantly blue and orange.
There was a little
bit of green in there,
and I think once yellow but
mostly blue and orange, blue
and orange, which are the
complement of each other.
So they take you into that
frequency pretty deeply,
and that has a whole
other component to it,
which is really interesting.
>>MCKENNA: Neat.
>>REGINA: I love it.
OK.
So thank you for sharing
the new ball discovery,
but you have other, a couple
other discoveries you've made.
>>MCKENNA: I do.
I'll start this
one with I actually
kind of got tipped off on
this one by Rupert Sheldrake?
You know Rupert Sheldrake,
the morphic field?
Wow.
What a wonderful guy.
>>REGINA: He's wonderful.
>>MCKENNA: So he referenced
this other guy, Dias, Dias,
from Emory University.
And one of the experiments--
I looked it up--
and the experiment
was that they had
mice, and these mice
were in a-- they had them in a
box with an electrical bottom.
And the experimenter, Dias, Dr.
Dias, and is a neuroscientist,
he had this kind of
floral fruit scent.
And he took the floral,
chemical fruit scent,
and he put it in the box,
just had the mice smell it.
And then he shocked them.
And then he continued,
every time he
would hit them with the
scent, bam, they get shocked.
So these are
traumatized mice, right?
So after he did it, and then
he would do the chemical.
And the mice would be like, ah!
You know, freaked out,
right, as they should be.
So the neat thing was, is that
the descendants of the mice--
not the mice in the box,
but the descendants--
>>REGINA: Subsequent
generations, yeah.
>>MCKENNA: And descendants'
descendants ended up--
you would take the
smell, and he'd
put it in the box with
these descendants.
These descendants
are not-- these
are separated from
the original group.
And the mice are freaking out.
So we hold--
>>REGINA: Generational
patterns of trauma.
>>MCKENNA: Exactly, exactly.
We think it's just
us, and it's not.
We're actually now
scientifically proving
that there's more to it, and
we have our ancestors' junk.
So the epiphany, right,
was I had obviously
had some wonderful teachers,
just that are incredible.
And one of the recurring themes
from these different masters
was they would talk
about your eighth chakra,
it's very powerful.
And I'm like, OK.
Great.
It's powerful, and
that sort of thing.
Great.
And one day, I was like,
well, what's in it for me?
I know it's powerful,
but so what?
If I can't use it what good
does that do me, right?
So I had the idea one day, if
it's that powerful, it probably
could erase out my
negativity or other's
negativity out of my space.
And William Buhlman, have
you ever heard of him?
>>REGINA: I don't know him.
>>MCKENNA: Buhlman he wrote
a lot of stuff related
to out-of-body experiences.
And I think he's--
the books are called
"Adventures Out of the Body."
Wonderful, wonderful work.
And what I learned from him was
that he's extremely commanding.
When he goes out of
body, he commands.
This is what's going down.
I'm going here.
I'm going there.
And he's really doing it.
So he's been at this for,
I don't now, 30, 40 years.
And so I was like, well,
you need to be commanding.
And I commanded
the eighth chakra
to erase all of my negativity
and everyone else's
out of my physical body.
So I did the command, and I
really felt it, and it worked.
So all you do is you
hold your attention
over your head about 12 inches,
that's your eighth chakra,
and you command it to erase
all of your negativity
and everyone else is
out of your space.
You can do it for,
well, let's just
say other dimensional
beings that
might be in your space that are
kind of interfering and feeding
on your problems.
So you hold that, and it works.
Now, the interesting
thing was it
wasn't until maybe a year
later, I had studied obviously,
but I didn't connect the dots.
The hermetic teachings-- as
above, so below and so about.
And I'd been using my eighth
chakra to clear my space,
and then it hit me.
As above, so below.
And I was like, hm there's
below my feet, Earth,
the Earth chakras.
And after things happened to me,
I wrote about that in my book,
the whole opening of the crown
and the kind of being up here,
and the kind of the attachment
to the divine realms
and those sorts of things
and not very interested
in the Earth and
all those things,
because this is so overwhelming.
So what ended up
happening is I was like,
huh, well, if it's so below,
then that would make sense
that it's actually attached.
Those chakras are all
about your physical body.
So I was like I commanded
the chakras below the feet,
all the way down to the
center of the Earth,
which are in control of
different things to erase
everything from what I thought
was my ancestors' or my past
lives out of my physical body.
Anyway, it worked, and
I've taken a lot of people
through this.
And they just hold
the command for those
to erase all of those
traumatic experiences
and fears of my ancestors
out of my space.
And when people do this,
it's an amazing thing.
I even took some people
here through the process
before the show.
Is you end up experiencing it
not only throughout your body,
but then you'll notice that
this feeling up your legs
and up and through your body,
it starts to connect you.
What's so important, I
think some of your guests
talk about this is the body
is like a battery, right?
Well, this being,
say, the positive,
if you have this huge
positive, you also
need to have equally
a negative charge
as well, which is the Earth
and the Earth chakras.
So you can really
boost your growth
through clearing
your space, and it's
helping you and all
of your ancestors
at the same time in releasing.
And this is fast.
You hold the command
for, let's say, a minute,
and you'll feel it.
>>REGINA: And the word
"command" is really interesting,
and I think it's critical to
what you're talking about.
And I remember years ago, I
was chatting with my beings
that I'm associated with, my
uber guides, and they said,
don't come to us or any
other guides as a beggar.
They said you need to
command what you want.
There is power.
There's electricity in
that energy of the command.
And if you need help from beings
beyond, guides and so forth,
they will do it if it's within
their own structure of ethics
and ability.
They'll help you,
but command it.
Humans act like
beggars, because we
have this horrible inferiority
complex as a species
that we tend to come with
our little begging bowls.
Give us a little scrap.
Would you please
help me with this?
I'm so defeated, and all this.
And they said no.
Come out and command
what you wish,
and if it's in alignment with
everything, you will be helped.
And so I just wanted to toss
that in, because we often,
especially women in
particular, don't generally
command anything.
>>MCKENNA: Right right.
>>REGINA: And it's a
different feeling in the body.
It's very intense to
command something,
and I think that's really--
I'm glad you brought
that up to begin with,
because I think that's key
to the success of what you're
talking about.
That's my guess.
>>MCKENNA: Absolutely,
because it's just
sitting there doing
nothing, and now you're
just going to hold the
command of what is to happen.
>>REGINA: Yes.
You have one more, that is
the one about estrangement.
>>MCKENNA: This one--
one of the things
I just love about this program
is being able to get this out
to people and really change
everybody's relationships
in a positive way.
So I have many, many stories.
I don't know if I'll be able
to tell them with the time.
This sounds kind of really like,
how could that work or basic,
but I got to tell you.
I have so many stories of
people I've taught this to that
have had--
they were friends forever,
and then something happened.
You have no idea what,
but the person is gone,
and they won't talk
to you anymore.
Well, family members, I've had
them come to me, and I say,
just do this one thing
and just keep doing it.
48 hours later, all of a
sudden, the phone rings.
It's like, hey, what's up?
The girls are like, hey, you see
"The Bachelorette" last night?
What a blah, blah, blah.
Nothing--
>>REGINA: Like nothing happened.
>>MCKENNA: Like
nothing happened.
>>REGINA: Fascinating.
>>MCKENNA: And even stranger
than that, relationships that
went five years,
and they literally
hadn't seen each other, and
maybe four or five days later,
it's like forced situation,
and the person is like, hey.
How are you doing?
We need to go to lunch?
Can you go tomorrow to lunch?
This is great.
Awesome.
I'd love to see you.
This is great.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, it's
extraordinarily simple.
All you do is just
imagine a tube
of white divine
light coming down
through the top of your
head, down through your neck,
to your heart, and then
out like a fire hose,
flowing right at
that person's chest.
And you just let it go,
and ascend the attention
that it's just to keep flowing
and starting to empower.
>>REGINA: With
that, I thank you.
I love that you brought
your magical bag of tricks
to us once again.
You're always coming
up with new ones
in your little magic factory.
So when you come up with
the next batch of ideas,
we'll come back
and do this again.
>>MCKENNA: All
right Sounds great.
>>REGINA: Thank you so much.
To tap into this new technology,
you can go to Bill's site
at cognomovement.com.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]